README.rst, before:

===============
Redmine OpenPGP
===============

A plugin for Redmine to enhance the security of email communication by

- de-/encrypting in-/outgoing emails with the OpenPGP standard
- filtering content of unencrypted emails

developed for `C3S - (Cultural Commons Collecting Society) <https://c3s.cc>`_


Details
=======

Users may

- *add* / *remove* their public PGP key
- *see* the public PGP key of the redmine server

Administrators may

- choose to *pass* / *reject* incoming mails without a valid signature for all projects
- activate outgoing mail handling for *all* / *selected* / *no* projects
- *add* / *generate* / *remove* a private PGP key for the redmine server (both *server-side* / *client-side*)
- choose to *pass* / *filter* / *block* outgoing unencrypted mails
- add a *footer message* to filtered mails

Encrypted mails may be

- *PGP/MIME* or *PGP/Inline* (incoming)
- *PGP/MIME* (outgoing)

Unencrypted mails may be

- *blocked*: no mail is sent
- *filtered*: body is reduced to the link to the added / updated object and an invitation to add the public PGP key; headers & subject are unchanged
- *unchanged*: mail is sent unchanged

Notifications affected:

- attachments_added
- document_added
- issue_add
- issue_edit
- message_posted
- news_added
- news_comment_added
- wiki_content_added
- wiki_content_updated


Dependencies
============

- gpg (http://www.gnupg.org/download/)
- gpgme (https://github.com/ueno/ruby-gpgme)
- mail-gpg (https://github.com/jkraemer/mail-gpg)


Compatibility
=============

This plugin has been tested with
::

    gnupg    1.4.18
    ruby     2.1.5p273
    rails    4.2.3
    redmine  3.1.0
    gpgme    2.0.9
    mail-gpg 0.2.4

*Note:* ``gpg`` == 2.0.X will not work (see `here <https://stackoverflow.com/a/27768542>`_). ``gpg`` >= 2.1 will probably work, if a gpgme passphrase callback function is added to the code (but is still missing). Downgrade to 1.X or install 1.X parallel and symlink ``/usr/bin/gpg`` to ``/usr/bin/gpg2``


Installation
============

#. Change into plugin directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine/plugins``

#. Clone this repo into ``/path/to/redmine/plugins/openpgp``

     ``$git clone https://github.com/C3S/redmine_openpgp openpgp``

#. Import the public PGP key for signature verification

     ``$git show pgp | gpg --import``

#. Verify the signature
    
     ``$git tag --verify 1.0``

#. Change to current release tag

     ``$git checkout tags/1.0``

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Install gems

     ``$bundle install``

#. Migrate database

     ``$RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake redmine:plugins:migrate``

#. Restart redmine

     ``$sudo service apache2 restart``


Configuration
=============

Administrators
--------------

#. Configure redmine

   - *Administration / Settings / Email notifications*

     - Emission email address

   - *Administration / Settings / General*

     - Host name and path
     - Protocol

   - *Administration / Settings / Incoming emails*

     - Enable WS for incoming emails
     - API key
     - Exclude attachments by name: ``*.asc, *.pgp, *.gpg``

#. Configure plugin

   - *Administration / Plugins / Openpgp*

#. Add or generate a private PGP key for the redmine server 

   - *either* server-side (secure)
   - *or* client-side (**INSECURE over http**, more or less secure over https)

*Note:* The remote server needs enough entropy to generate random, secure keys. If the server side generation process does not proceed or the client side connection has a timeout, connect to the remote server and try ``ls -R /`` several times. If you use ``rngd`` for entropy generation, be advised not to use ``/dev/urandom`` as source for important keys.

Adding an existing private PGP key server-side
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Export the private PGP key (ascii armored, from ``-----BEGIN PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----`` to ``-----END PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----``) and save it into a file on the server

#. Login as the user owning the redmine process (important for using the right gpg key ring)

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Use a rake task to add the existing key, deleting the old one. Point ``keyfile`` to the absolute path to the key file and choose a ``secret``:

     ``$RAILS_ENV="production" bundle exec rake redmine:update_redmine_pgpkey keyfile="/path/to/key.asc" secret="passphrase"``

Generating a new private PGP key server-side
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Login as the user owning the redmine process (important for using the right gpg key ring)

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Use a rake task to generate the new key, deleting the old one. Choose a ``secret``:

     ``$RAILS_ENV="production" bundle exec rake redmine:generate_redmine_pgpkey secret="passphrase"``

Managing a private PGP keys client-side
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Log into redmine as administrator

#. Visit http://REDMINE.URL/pgp (or follow the new "PGP" link in the account menue)

#. Follow the instructions (on the right side)

Users
-----

#. Log into redmine

#. Visit http://REDMINE.URL/pgp (or follow the new "PGP" link in the account menue)

#. Add your public PGP key

#. Copy & paste the public PGP key for the redmine server into a local file on your machine

#. Import this file into your local gpg key ring

*Note:* The private PGP key for the redmine server has to be added by an administrator, before the corresponding public PGP key is displayed.


Uninstallation
==============

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Downgrade the database

     ``$RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake redmine:plugins:migrate NAME=openpgp VERSION=0``

#. Remove the files

     ``$rm -r /path/to/redmine/plugins/openpgp``


Implementation
==============

The table ``pgpkeys`` is added to the redmine database:

- each entry associates a redmine user (``user_id``) with the unique fingerprint of a key (``fpr``). This allows for matching fingerprints instead of email address, thus enabling redmine users to delete/update their keys and use keys, which don't match their email address
- the entry with ``user_id`` 0 is reserved for the private key of the redmine server additionally containing the secret passphrase (``secret``)

The following gems are used:

- ``mail-gpg`` for de-/encryption and signature handling within ``Mail`` / ``ActionMailer``
- ``gpgme`` to interact with ``gpg`` running on the server

Whenever a key is added:

- the key is imported into the ``gpg`` key ring of the system user owning the redmine process
- an entry is added to the table ``pgpkeys``

Whenever a key is removed:

- the corresponding entry in the table ``pgpkeys`` is deleted
- if there are no other references to this key within the table ``pgpkeys``:

  - the key is **removed from the gpg key ring** as well

Whenever a mail is sent:

- if the plugin is enabled globally or on project level:

  - if the recipient owns a key:

    - the mail is encryted for the recipient
    - if the redmine server owns a key:

      - the mail is signed by the redmine user

  - else: the mail is blocked / filtered / passed unchanged, depending on the plugin settings

Whenever a mail is recieved:

- it will be decrypted if encrypted

- depending on the plugin settings it will be rejected if the signature is invalid


Improvements
============

- Add tests
- Add languages
- Add LDAP integration for importing keys
- Add gpgme passphrase callback for ``gpg`` >= 2.1, retaining compatibility to ``gpg`` < 2


Links
=====

- `GPG <http://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual/x56.html>`_ (reference)
- `ActionMailer <http://apidock.com/rails/ActionMailer/Base>`_ (reference)
- `mail <http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/mail>`_ (reference)
- `gpgme <http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/gpgme/2.0.9>`_ (reference)
- `mail-gpg <http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/mail-gpg/0.2.4>`_ (reference)
- `PGP/MIME <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3156.txt>`_ (RFC)
- `PGP Formats <http://binblog.info/2008/03/12/know-your-pgp-implementation/>`_ (explanation)


Contributions
=============

- `Alexander Blum <https://github.com/timegrid>`_


License
=======
::

    Redmine plugin for email encryption with the OpenPGP standard
    Copyright (C) 2015 Alexander Blum <a.blum@free-reality.net>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

ref #2: added note for gpg folder permission

README.rst, after:

===============
Redmine OpenPGP
===============

A plugin for Redmine to enhance the security of email communication by

- de-/encrypting in-/outgoing emails with the OpenPGP standard
- filtering content of unencrypted emails

developed for `C3S - (Cultural Commons Collecting Society) <https://c3s.cc>`_


Details
=======

Users may

- *add* / *remove* their public PGP key
- *see* the public PGP key of the redmine server

Administrators may

- choose to *pass* / *reject* incoming mails without a valid signature for all projects
- activate outgoing mail handling for *all* / *selected* / *no* projects
- *add* / *generate* / *remove* a private PGP key for the redmine server (both *server-side* / *client-side*)
- choose to *pass* / *filter* / *block* outgoing unencrypted mails
- add a *footer message* to filtered mails

Encrypted mails may be

- *PGP/MIME* or *PGP/Inline* (incoming)
- *PGP/MIME* (outgoing)

Unencrypted mails may be

- *blocked*: no mail is sent
- *filtered*: body is reduced to the link to the added / updated object and an invitation to add the public PGP key; headers & subject are unchanged
- *unchanged*: mail is sent unchanged

Notifications affected:

- attachments_added
- document_added
- issue_add
- issue_edit
- message_posted
- news_added
- news_comment_added
- wiki_content_added
- wiki_content_updated


Dependencies
============

- gpg (http://www.gnupg.org/download/)
- gpgme (https://github.com/ueno/ruby-gpgme)
- mail-gpg (https://github.com/jkraemer/mail-gpg)


Compatibility
=============

This plugin has been tested with
::

    gnupg    1.4.18
    ruby     2.1.5p273
    rails    4.2.3
    redmine  3.1.0
    gpgme    2.0.9
    mail-gpg 0.2.4

*Note:* ``gpg`` == 2.0.X will not work (see `here <https://stackoverflow.com/a/27768542>`_). ``gpg`` >= 2.1 will probably work, if a gpgme passphrase callback function is added to the code (but is still missing). Downgrade to 1.X or install 1.X parallel and symlink ``/usr/bin/gpg`` to ``/usr/bin/gpg2``


Installation
============

#. Change into plugin directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine/plugins``

#. Clone this repo into ``/path/to/redmine/plugins/openpgp``

     ``$git clone https://github.com/C3S/redmine_openpgp openpgp``

#. Import the public PGP key for signature verification

     ``$git show pgp | gpg --import``

#. Verify the signature
    
     ``$git tag --verify 1.0``

#. Change to current release tag

     ``$git checkout tags/1.0``

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Install gems

     ``$bundle install``

#. Migrate database

     ``$RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake redmine:plugins:migrate``

#. Restart redmine

     ``$sudo service apache2 restart``

#. Log in as the user owning the redmine process (e.g. ``redmine``)

     ``$su redmine``

#. Ensure, that the gpg ring is created

     ``$gpg --list-keys``

#. Ensure, that the gpg ring folder is owned by the user owning the redmine process

     ``$chown redmine ~/.gnupg``


Configuration
=============

Administrators
--------------

#. Configure redmine

   - *Administration / Settings / Email notifications*

     - Emission email address

   - *Administration / Settings / General*

     - Host name and path
     - Protocol

   - *Administration / Settings / Incoming emails*

     - Enable WS for incoming emails
     - API key
     - Exclude attachments by name: ``*.asc, *.pgp, *.gpg``

#. Configure plugin

   - *Administration / Plugins / Openpgp*

#. Add or generate a private PGP key for the redmine server 

   - *either* server-side (secure)
   - *or* client-side (**INSECURE over http**, more or less secure over https)

*Note:* The remote server needs enough entropy to generate random, secure keys. If the server side generation process does not proceed or the client side connection has a timeout, connect to the remote server and try ``ls -R /`` several times. If you use ``rngd`` for entropy generation, be advised not to use ``/dev/urandom`` as source for important keys.

Adding an existing private PGP key server-side
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Export the private PGP key (ascii armored, from ``-----BEGIN PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----`` to ``-----END PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----``) and save it into a file on the server

#. Login as the user owning the redmine process (e.g. ``redmine``), to use the right gpg key ring

     ``$su redmine``

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Use a rake task to add the existing key, deleting the old one. Point ``keyfile`` to the absolute path to the key file and choose a ``secret``:

     ``$RAILS_ENV="production" bundle exec rake redmine:update_redmine_pgpkey keyfile="/path/to/key.asc" secret="passphrase"``

Generating a new private PGP key server-side
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Login as the user owning the redmine process (e.g. ``redmine``), to use the right gpg key ring

     ``$su redmine``

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Use a rake task to generate the new key, deleting the old one. Choose a ``secret``:

     ``$RAILS_ENV="production" bundle exec rake redmine:generate_redmine_pgpkey secret="passphrase"``

Managing a private PGP keys client-side
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Log into redmine as administrator

#. Visit http://REDMINE.URL/pgp (or follow the new "PGP" link in the account menue)

#. Follow the instructions (on the right side)

Users
-----

#. Log into redmine

#. Visit http://REDMINE.URL/pgp (or follow the new "PGP" link in the account menue)

#. Add your public PGP key

#. Copy & paste the public PGP key for the redmine server into a local file on your machine

#. Import this file into your local gpg key ring

*Note:* The private PGP key for the redmine server has to be added by an administrator, before the corresponding public PGP key is displayed.


Uninstallation
==============

#. Change into redmine root directory

     ``$cd /path/to/redmine``

#. Downgrade the database

     ``$RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake redmine:plugins:migrate NAME=openpgp VERSION=0``

#. Remove the files

     ``$rm -r /path/to/redmine/plugins/openpgp``


Implementation
==============

The table ``pgpkeys`` is added to the redmine database:

- each entry associates a redmine user (``user_id``) with the unique fingerprint of a key (``fpr``). This allows for matching fingerprints instead of email address, thus enabling redmine users to delete/update their keys and use keys, which don't match their email address
- the entry with ``user_id`` 0 is reserved for the private key of the redmine server additionally containing the secret passphrase (``secret``)

The following gems are used:

- ``mail-gpg`` for de-/encryption and signature handling within ``Mail`` / ``ActionMailer``
- ``gpgme`` to interact with ``gpg`` running on the server

Whenever a key is added:

- the key is imported into the ``gpg`` key ring of the system user owning the redmine process
- an entry is added to the table ``pgpkeys``

Whenever a key is removed:

- the corresponding entry in the table ``pgpkeys`` is deleted
- if there are no other references to this key within the table ``pgpkeys``:

  - the key is **removed from the gpg key ring** as well

Whenever a mail is sent:

- if the plugin is enabled globally or on project level:

  - if the recipient owns a key:

    - the mail is encryted for the recipient
    - if the redmine server owns a key:

      - the mail is signed by the redmine user

  - else: the mail is blocked / filtered / passed unchanged, depending on the plugin settings

Whenever a mail is recieved:

- it will be decrypted if encrypted

- depending on the plugin settings it will be rejected if the signature is invalid


Improvements
============

- Add tests
- Add languages
- Add LDAP integration for importing keys
- Add gpgme passphrase callback for ``gpg`` >= 2.1, retaining compatibility to ``gpg`` < 2


Links
=====

- `GPG <http://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual/x56.html>`_ (reference)
- `ActionMailer <http://apidock.com/rails/ActionMailer/Base>`_ (reference)
- `mail <http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/mail>`_ (reference)
- `gpgme <http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/gpgme/2.0.9>`_ (reference)
- `mail-gpg <http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/mail-gpg/0.2.4>`_ (reference)
- `PGP/MIME <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3156.txt>`_ (RFC)
- `PGP Formats <http://binblog.info/2008/03/12/know-your-pgp-implementation/>`_ (explanation)


Contributions
=============

- `Alexander Blum <https://github.com/timegrid>`_


License
=======
::

    Redmine plugin for email encryption with the OpenPGP standard
    Copyright (C) 2015 Alexander Blum <a.blum@free-reality.net>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
